Window User Management

6.4

**What are the main differences between the workgroup network model and the domain network model?**

Workgroup network model: Based on peer to peer networking. Each host is connected to a local network. None of the host have a specific role. Each system serves as a works station and server at the same time. In the peer to peer network we can share resource attached to other computers in the network. Only those in the peer group. Easy and inexpensive but should not be used with more than 10 computers in the network.

Domain network model: Each host provides a different role. Much more efficient and scalable than workgroups due to a centralized management structure and function. a collection of security principals that share a central authentication database known as Active Directory (AD).

**What are the disadvantages of a large company using a peer-to-peer network model?**

- Lack of scalability
- Lack of centralized configuration control
- Complexity of backing up data
- Lack of centralized authentication. To use resources on another computer, the same user account must be created on both systems.
- Lack of centrally applied security settings

**What are the differences between the stand-alone model and client-server model**?

Stand-alone model:

  - Functions independently, information cannot transmit directly from one host to another, must use public network like the internet to transmit data

Client server model:

  - Shared network. Server provide shared space for all computers in network (file storage, user management, security configuration, printing)

**What are the disadvantages of the client-server model?**

- Cost to implement due to specialized hardware and software requirements
- Planning time required for implementation
- Complexity of implementation
- Knowledge required to manage the implementation

**When is it beneficial to use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)?**

Company business grows to where systems need to be accessed outside of their domain networks. Allows to utilize internet for directory service, relieves the use local domain controller. Very little set up. It can work in conjunction with all current active directories.

**Terms**

**Active Directory** : Developed by Microsoft, Active Directory is a centralized database that contains user accounts and security information. It is included in most Windows Server operating systems as a set of processes and services.

**Organizational unit (OU):** In Active Directory, an organizational unit is a way to organize such things as users, groups, computers, etc. It is also referred to as a container object.

**Domain objects :** All network resources, such as users, groups, computers, and printers are stored as objects in Active Directory.

**Azure Active Directory:** Azure AD is Microsoft&#39;s cloud-based identity and access management service. It helps employees sign in and access resources.

**Local user accounts:**

Two types of local accounts: Administrator and Standard User

**Admins** have complete control of the system.

-Change global settings

-Create/delete users

-Install applications

-Run applications in an elevated state

-Access all files on the system

**Standard users** have very limited permissions

-Use applications (but they cannot install them)

-Change some settings that apply only to them

**Tools for local accounts**

Windows Settings App:

With this tool you can create a local account on a computer not joined to a domain.

Computer Management:

With this tool you are not required to use security questions. This method also gives you the ability to:

- Force users to change the password at the next sign-in
- Restrict the user from changing the password
- Allow the password to never expire
- Disable/enable an account

**Workgroup membership:**

When using workgroups, consider the following:

- Workgroups provide only sign-in security.
- No username or password is required to join a workgroup.
- Computers that belong to the same workgroup can share resources only if they are on the same segment.
- Workgroups have no centralized authentication. This means that for a user to access a remote system, the same username and password must be created on the remote system. Otherwise, each user would need to know the username and password on the remote system.
- If a domain is not used, the computer is a member of the workgroup named Workgroup by default.

**Microsoft account sign-in:**

Microsoft accounts use a single sign-on system. You can sign into different systems while maintaining the same user settings and password.

Microsoft accounts also provide synchronized access to other Microsoft services such as Office 365, Outlook, Skype, OneDrive, Xbox Live, Bing, and Microsoft Store.

**Domain account sign-in:**

Signing into your system, the username and password entered are sent to the domain controller. The domain controller then checks to see if the username and password submitted match the credentials

Domain user account must have already been created in Active Directory and the computer must have been joined to the desired domain.

**Azure Active Directory account sign-in:**

Azure AD, users can sign in and access both internal and external resources. Internal resources include such things as the applications on a corporate network. External resources include such things as Microsoft Office 365 and other Software as a Service (SaaS) applications.

As with on-premises Active Directory, to use Azure AD a user account must be created in Azure AD and the local computer must be joined to the Azure AD domain.
